so it's almost like your life is like
you've gotten to the age of 30 and
you're in reckful z-- life but you like
you're at the airport of your life but
you left your bag at home
how are you so the day after we talked
last time yeah I felt a lot better I
think I might message you about it yeah
I woke up I felt more whole yeah great
um then I remember having a moment
though okay this is gonna sound really
government I was sad the day after that
and I remember being like oh I'm not
fixed obviously I'm not it's not
permanent
there's no permanent fix to sound is
gonna be up and down right it's just a
dumb thought but I remember having that
thought and being like ah you know even
though it just it's just an automatic
thing to think yeah but why do you think
that that's a dumb thought it's a dumb
thought because human emotion is always
gonna be up and down right I'm not gonna
be happy forever
yeah but I mean I is crazy as it sounds
I don't I don't think that's a dumb
thought I think it's actually the
opposite I think it's an important
realization right so sometimes sometimes
when when you have you know a powerful
moment and life you feel transformed and
then the next day rolls around and
you're like oh [ __ ] we're back to square
one and that's actually like I'm glad
you feel that way because I think part
of so you know this this is not about
curing people this is about teaching you
how to go in and out of the water so
like you had you felt really good for a
day and then you went you notice that
like there were things about you that
are still the same and so like the whole
process of I think growth and healing is
actually like is like having good days
and then bad days and good days and then
bad days and each time you learn how to
move from one to the other and then over
time you get better at like moving back
and forth and then you get to control
whether your days are good or your days
are bad
this makes sense yeah yeah I've been
waking up every day every day for the
last week I've been waking up and I
start out in a I'd call it a sad state I
started out in a sad state and I always
have like this faint memory of some
dream that was really annoying like I
was in an airport and lost my luggage
like these kind of just so I think that
kind of affects the feeling when you
wake out maybe a little bit then uh then
I'm waking up and I'm like I'm like I'm
it's probably most people probably wake
up a little sad cuz you have a little
energy a little maybe I don't know sure
then uh house I'm getting from my day
and starting to do some things I find
fulfilling like talk to Tyler who's my
friend who works on everything um then
I'm feeling better and then uh after we
stopped working for the day then I go
into slump for a bit and then I try to
reach out to friends to hang out and if
they hang out with me then I'd go back
in a happy time and then I get a little
lonely and then I go to bed and that's
my day yeah so yeah you're I'm gonna
have to apologize because some of the
interviews are starting to blur together
but didn't we talk a little bit about
how you had periods of time where you
distract yourself from your base state
and then you kind of get tired of doing
so I mean I think this is this is so
reckful this is all fantastic actually I
mean I realize I say this way too much
on screen but people will tell me
something really [ __ ] depressing
about their life don't be like that is
fantastic what I think is fantastic is
that you're noticing the patterns of
your life okay right yeah they're
noticing what's going on and the
theories that we developed last time
which is that you have this basic state
of like unhappiness where you do like
fulfilling stuff or distracting stuff
and that kind of distracts you from that
but then you kind of like come back to
like your you're like neutral which is
sad which we're gonna get into but I
think it's really important to recognize
that like you you're gonna have just to
understand what's going on in you that
you can do like dharmic
you can do work that you find fulfilling
and that makes you feel good and you can
also hang out with friends and that
makes you feel good but when you're
alone and by yourself it sounds like you
feel sad yes and I actually view that as
okay I think about it like from I guess
an evolutionary standpoint that humans
needed other humans around them to
survive and pass on their genes so if
you didn't have other humans around you
you'd be unhappy maybe it's like why do
you do that driver because I mean so
like yeah sure so I mean I'm a scientist
but I mean I say sort of [ __ ] that
because the whole goal here is for you
to be peaceful and happy when you were
alone right is your basic state to be
peaceful and happy like that's the goal
that would be awesome but yeah that
would be awesome but then I I do like
this feeling that I can if I feel
terrible I'm like oh it makes sense I
can step back and be like oh it makes
sense I'm alone human beings were meant
to be in tribes not alone so that's huge
but I think the key thing there is not
the rationale but your capacity to step
back and accept the way that you feel to
not judge yourself for the way that you
feel hmm
so the reason you do it is fine I mean
whether it's evolutionary or whatever
like I you know that's great but I think
the important thing is that when you're
feeling sad this I think is a little bit
different is that I think you're you
except that you feel sad and you kind of
are okay with that
in a sense yeah I'm somewhat okay with
it so tell me about that tell me what
you mean by somewhat okay with it I can
imagine okay well I definitely didn't oh
man when I was in high school or 20 or
something I didn't see I didn't imagine
that when I'm 30 I'll be a person who's
alone this often I didn't think that
would happen and
I think that kind of thought in itself
makes me a little more sad mm-hmm and I
should just take things day by day more
um III think streaming I have a lot of
justifications for it I mean in my in my
head I'm like okay well streaming as a
job is very isolating you end up you do
talk to people on the internet but you
end up sitting in your room 10 hours a
day many years in a row sometimes seven
days a week I did before
and there's not not gonna make a look
not gonna make a lot of funds like that
you know and then if you want to talk to
other people who are streamers who are
in the same field usually people meet
people at their career but the other
streamers are just as busy streaming all
the time also so then I can't really
expect them to give me their time
you're gonna sit me yeah reckful I have
a couple of just simple questions for
you
where what part of the world do you live
in in the u.s. I'm in Texas right now I
used to be in California how much
exposure to sunlight do you get I get a
lot so I walk every day I step I just
actually look at my screen for a walk
like a week ago but I walk outside for
like five miles actually a day okay okay
so you get point because I mean you
could just be like vitamin D deficient
you know my dad always thought that -
yeah but I mean my God every time he
visits me or I visit him he just hands
me this vitamin D pills from Costco I
mean if you're getting if you're walking
five miles a day that's that's what like
an hour and a half of walking yeah yeah
I just brainstorm while doing it yeah
what's your what's your ethnicity I'm
Israeli okay so so people who have
darker skin so people who are Israeli or
Middle Eastern or Indian or African or
African American we have lower our
vitamin D apparatuses are not as
efficient as people who are Caucasian
and that's just because we were
bombarded by sunlight like all the time
which is why it makes me longer to get
vitamin D yes okay so so like but still
shouldn't be a problem in taxes but in
the Northeast for example like I'm
Indian so I'm almost certainly vitamin D
deficient because my vitamin D like
apparatus is not is efficient to someone
who's Scandinavian by origin yeah okay
so let me just kind of recap a little
bit about what I heard so it sounds like
things are moving in a positive
direction that you're able to accept and
understand that sometimes you still feel
sad you're also able to this is really
important sort of see how your life has
influenced as you make the careers of
the career that you committed to it has
created the situation that your life
isn't now which is like somewhat lonely
yeah that's I mean so what I'm hearing
from you is that you say sad but what
I'm hearing is is lonely
I equate that I relate those two are
very related to me okay the feeling of
loneliness it makes me sad yeah but I
mean a lot of things make someone sad
but what I'm hearing from you is like
the the meaning of sad or the origin of
sad is really loneliness like when you
wake up in the morning and you feel sad
okay knowingness because I just
remembered when you said that I
remembered I was at twitchcon at a party
and I tweeted I'm in a room full of
people but I've never felt so alone
something like that and uh I guess I
equated to not relating to people near
me maybe yeah so so I think let's
remember that being alone and being
lonely are like two different things
okay yeah yeah
so what's the difference um well you can
feel lonely you can feel lonely if what
I just said though if you feel lonely
for not relating to people around you
right or you don't feel a close
connection with them yeah even if you're
around people and when you wake up in
the morning like what what do you mean
by feeling sad can you help me or us
understand that yeah I want to try to
okay I want to try to word it better so
let's say I'm not trying we put really
put myself in a situation just woke up I
wake up and I'm like already nervous
about something or anxious is the word
maybe sure and I don't know what it is
and then I think that maybe it's the
dreams but I don't remember then I I
like to not look at my phone too quickly
when I wake up because I realized that
already kind of puts me in a bad state
of mind so I just sit there and like
breathe and think for a little bit
and then when I finally do look at my
phone I like go through some message I
might have gotten I don't really get
that many but you know that I respond as
people and then sometimes uh-hmm I'm
walking myself through it but I'm not
really getting anything okay um I'm just
curious about dreams do you have dreams
that are kind of like negative you sort
of always negative things bad things
happen to you in your dreams
yeah dreams of flying or falling falling
yeah falling okay not flying and like if
I remember them it's it's some weird
things like I was falling and I woke up
yeah
what about dreams of I don't know how to
say this but not so like persecution
isn't the right word but like dreams of
like disappointing people or like being
like I don't know how to describe this
but like dreams of like showing up to
class and forgetting that like
forgetting your homework at home does
those are my most common type okay
showing up there's always something I
forgot somewhere I am I don't have
something I'm not yeah exactly that's
the feeling well I mean maybe a lot of
people do I thought when I just was at
the airport and I like lost my bag or
something it's hard to remember exactly
what it was or just something was lost
while I was there and I just kept he was
an it was so long I just kept looking
for it forever and I just couldn't ever
find it and I was just stuck in this
loop for so yeah okay yeah so let's just
put a pin on that for a second so and
when you feel sad like let's say let's
talk about going to bed then when you go
when you go to bed how do you feel
depends on the day I guess if I feel if
the specific day I felt like I'm made
some progress toward my game finishing
or back before when I see a stream a lot
if I stream that day and I liked the
stream I'm going to yeah or if I hung
out with some people who were I felt a
connection with like a friends or
whatever um then I'll go to bed it like
more fulfilled and calm and a lot of
times I'll just go to bed though uh go
to bed a little bit lonely I mean ya
know how else to describe it I think
that's a good word so I think I'm gonna
try to offer something else
I think there's loneliness there and I
think there's also life not turning out
the way you thought it would like this
is not the life that you expected to be
living yeah I feel like it could be a
lot better and it doesn't seem like it
would be that difficult to get there I
could have more friends around somehow
I've tried to force it to happen
sometimes like really try to get people
to move to be near me and things like
that like friends to do that yeah but
it's led to bad situations when I did it
yeah
give me just a second okay yeah yeah so
it's almost like your life is like
you've gotten to the age of 30 and
you're in reckful z-- life but you like
you're at the airport of your life but
you left your bag at home like this is
not how things were supposed to wind up
you know it's like this this is not it's
not that anything is like wrong per se
like everything else is right but
there's just like one thing that's just
missing like this is just not how things
were supposed to be and not enough
friends around and I think the challenge
here reckful is that you know we can in
a bizarre way I'm gonna actually ask you
to kind of move past a lot of what we
talked about last time so I think living
a life of Dharma and like building
Everland and stuff like that is actually
really important I think it's good that
you're doing it and I want you to just
notice that I think to a certain degree
like that's your that's your medicine
and the problem here is that like as
long as your life is the way it is
you're always gonna need medicine to
make it feel better
the goal is yet okay but we the goal is
the goal is I feel good without medicine
exactly right so like it I don't I
really don't see that ever happening and
I know that's part of the problem no
it's not it's not part of the problem no
no no so don't do that to yourself don't
you don't judge yourself no I think it's
it's a completely reasonable logical and
intelligent conclusion because you have
30 years that have told you it's not
gonna happen so why the [ __ ] would you
like so this is this is where like I
don't like this power of positive
thinking and like you know hope and I
mean like hope is good but like let's
understand what where hope comes from
what so I think this is yeah no I don't
think that's part of the problem that's
fantastic that's where we start so let
me so what I'm getting from you reckful
is that there is just a seed of like
discontent that is actually like pretty
deep yeah that no matter like what you
do you can start to feel better but
there's just this one thing that you
can't shake yes so and and you know
there's a there's someone else who kind
of and you're pretty successful like
would you describe yourself that way
um I go in and out of thinking I'm
successful not let me put it this way do
you think that other people would be
happy to be in your shoes without my
mental state yes
okay the circumstance they have their
mental state yeah yeah yeah and I do
have some questions for you about like
your relationships and things like that
but I'm just gonna save those for a
little bit later so like you know who
else kind of felt like you did really
famous person there's a religion that's
sort of based off of teachings there's a
religion based as long as teachings of
Confucius no would that oh okay we're
gonna talk a little bit about Buddha for
a second so what do you know about very
little
although wait um okay wait I read the
book
Siddhartha or something okay when I was
do you know what what like what was
blood this job do you remember I feel
like he was like a prince or something
and then he left us that no bill yeah he
was a nobility and then he left
and Truckee wasn't happy there and then
they just wandered around so let's stop
right there that's that's fantastic
reckful so why did it why was he unhappy
do you remember what do you think felt
unfulfilled I did imagine ya just
sitting there he was born into wealth he
didn't have to do anything uh he wants
to somehow feel like he's helping the
world and some way maybe yeah but he
wasn't something like that yeah so I
think this is so you're in a very I
think you know you kind of say you're in
a hopeless position but I think that
you're in a in a difficult but wonderful
position which is that you're in you're
in the position that Gotham would this
started off with which is he woke up one
day and we have we all have this idea
that a certain thing is gonna give us
happiness like and this is easy if
you're one of the have-nots right like
if I wake up and I'm poor and I'm broke
and I have like credit card debt and I'm
we're gonna get evicted at the end of
the month and no one loves me then like
it's easy to think if someone loves me
or ideal like if the credit card debt
goes away or if I have stable housing or
things like that then I'll be happy with
me so then then you always have yeah you
always have a progression path when you
have a progression want yeah what was
what this progression path he when he
was a nobility doesn't know what it's
like would this like he's he's
nobility's a prince he's respected he's
loved he has power he has wealth he's
married to a beautiful woman with others
down the line should he want them yeah
and so
he wakes up and he's unhappy and he is
way more [ __ ] than the broke person
why
well this is really funny you asked me
because I had a one time I got clipped
saying being poor seems fun and it was
really bad did the people like it that
were really mad at me yeah but I just
wasn't context there sure those thing
there's a progression path for you yep
you have something to do which is
exactly we're talking about so yeah so
wait why is what the more screwed than
the person who's broke because he has he
doesn't know what to do to seek
fulfillment exactly in fact he has done
everything to see like all of the goals
that people strive for that give them
meaning and progression in life but that
is just [ __ ] because he's gotten all
of those things and it's like well now
what it's like imagine playing a game
that you beat and the game doesn't end
like that is the most [ __ ] boring
game in the world depends on the game
but yeah sometimes right well no I mean
like imagine there's like nothing like
your post the last boss and you're like
in the chamber where you've like slain
the last boss and you're just hanging
out okay yeah okay there's nothing to do
in the game yeah you'd have to be able
to go back to previous levels yeah but
like that's not that you know that's not
like I mean so would that could in
theory I guess he could go and and well
that's what he did right is he he gave
up his welfare you gave up what about
the previous levels yeah he didn't do
game plus right yeah and and so I think
this is a subtle but important point
because I think that and so there's a
great text called Patanjali Yoga Sutras
and so sutras are translated as like
threads or lines there so like the old
like Hindu and Buddhist texts or Sutra
so they're not like texts they're like
they're like poems or they're like
hundreds of lines long so they're each
like kind of like an equation so there's
not like any filler there's no
explanation there's no it's like all
like equals a MC squared y equals MX
plus B like it's just a bunch of
equations and the idea and the reason is
because they were passed down through
oral tradition
they had to be memorized so like if you
if you can memorize 50 equations like
you can understand algebra and you can
teach algebra and things like that does
that make sense I was trying to follow
well while I was trying to follow I
realized I had to pee and then I was
like why am I getting distracted by this
and then also your mic cut out one time
and I got a strike okay so go pee go pee
but just kind of going back to sutras
so like sutras are there they're like
lines so they're very short and there's
a weird thing in Patanjali yoga sutras
which is that the first word of his
sutras is now and it's kind of a weird
thing like if you have a if you have
just like a list of it like math
equations like the word now doesn't
belong there does that make sense like
if you ever read a book that starts with
the word now I remember what word most
books start with like like there's no
textbook that's like now we're gonna
talk about algebra like that's something
that you say if you're making a
transition but like no written thing
starts with the word now okay
this reminds me of the power of No yeah
well that's that cart toll right yeah
but so the interesting thing about it
and so a lot of times people were
wondering like for Patanjali who's his
his sutras are like really really dense
so for example one of his sutras or one
of the lines of his sutras is great is
says that Yoga is something that's yoga
chitta vritti nirodh aha' which means
Yoga is the practice of cessation of
fluctuations of the mind it's a practice
of cessation of fluctuations of the mind
yes that's the point of Yoga is to stop
the fluctuations of the mind so it's
like really like dense kind of like
meaningful sort of things and so it's
weird that he starts with the word now
because and people were like why on
earth is he saying now like isn't it
obvious when you pick up a book that
you're reading the book to make it more
present do you think about the present
moment maybe so on the contrary so like
what what people sort of hypothesized is
that actually he says that Yoga starts
with desperation
that like now so is his first line is
now the science of yoga and reckful I
think now you are ready for yoga because
you have reached a point where like
nothing else is giving you happiness and
that is when the path of yoga begins
it starts out of desperation your it
starts with wood the wood though like
what wheat what most of us think of as
the endgame is like beating the game is
where Buddha started and Buddha's
journey of yoga oh yeah like Buddha's
path for enlightenment began at the end
of most people's games right he achieved
everything or was given everything that
most people strive for and so like the
search for spirituality starts like
actually when your material desires are
fulfilled and you wake up one day and
you're unhappy so then you're like oh
[ __ ] now like I'm just [ __ ] I don't
think that this is ever gonna get better
that's the conclusion you come to
because all of the things that you think
are gonna make it better or things that
maybe on some level you already have
right so I think like the other thing
here is like I'm not I'm curious about
your relationships cuz that's not
something that I know anything about but
I wonder about your sense of loneliness
and better relationships yeah but
generally speaking I think this is
actually a great place to start because
you're sort of desperate because nothing
is gonna fix your problem and that's
when you really go looking so that was
another long time yes and Buddha was too
and then but they decided I don't think
you need to do this but but they decided
that he was like I'm gonna I'm gonna
give this up and go look for an answer
because I've heard out there that there
are ways people who supposedly claim
that they can lead to like peace and
contentment and I'm gonna go look for
that and all this stuff is not bringing
me happiness I didn't do it to the same
extent Saul riding around I didn't do it
to the same extent but I just like stop
streaming go travel do things that
people say make some happy things like
yeah
and so you've explored just like would
the did and now you need to start the
path of yoga which is like sadhana
saadon that means like dedicated
spiritual practice so this is like
learning how to and you know we can talk
about how you can do that but like so
the path that I follow is something
called Raja yoga and Raja Yoga is the
kings path or the Eightfold Path and it
believes that the way
to get to enlightenment is like a
stepwise sequential thing you level up
basically it starts with personal
observances and societal observances
goes to yoga postures breathing
techniques sensory deprivation or
sensory withdrawal techniques which is
techniques that allow you to withdraw
the attention from your senses too and
redirect it inward so generally speaking
our attention like is engaged in the
senses all the time so to redirect that
inward to focus to meditate and then to
gain a state of temporary enlightenment
I when you said breathing I realized the
way I breathe
any time I find myself and start
manually breathing I feel instantly
happier yes I think the way I breathe my
automatic breathing can I train my
automatic breathing to be in a better
way
or is it too late yes because it's
always like short breaths you know yep
but when I really think about it and
breathe deep I feel calmer yeah so
that's exactly why the fourth step of
this process is Brown I am Brown I am is
breathing techniques and the reason is
because the way to control the mind is
through the breath so but Anjali figured
out that each mood that we have and I've
done this before on screen but we can do
it again because by the way our stream
is blown up gigantically since our time
together so thank you for that but we
can do this again so like let's just
talk about breath for a second let's
help you understand breathing and what
effect it has on your mind and what the
relationship between mind and breath is
so first of all reckful what do you
think is the relationship between your
mind and your breath
hmm well I guess the breaths are the
food of the mind right what does that
mean it means the oxygen surely to the
air so I'm gonna offer a couple of very
difficult ground rules no philosophy no
Theory no science just experience okay
okay that's better I like the better
okay so let me write what is the
relationship between your breath and
your mind well like I was saying if I am
my automatic breathing he always feels a
little hurried and if I take a moment
and breathe deeper then I feel calm
so I guess my state of mind depends on
how I'm breathing to some extent I I
wouldn't say that the outside influences
don't matter at all because some people
will go to that extent but for me that
isn't true sure but uh so breath
influences mind yes it does influence it
for sure does mind influence breath yes
okay so so are there certain patterns of
so let me ask you this I want you to I'm
just gonna breathe and I want you to
tell me what I'm feeling nervous or I
guess people call it anxious or you're
scared maybe even okay now this one what
is that
do it again I think that's just tired
just you've worked out or something okay
that's not it it's not what I was going
for but that's okay okay that's fine
so let's do this one it
right so let's just think about this for
a second okay let me try to see if I can
do another one okay I'm gonna do a
couple of difference you're a little
worried about something absolutely right
little worried about some then there's
this you're starting to be afraid yeah
right so worried and fear so just let's
just think about what you're doing right
now how are you able to determine what
is going on in my mind what are you
observing the breath well maybe a little
bit of facial expression too but it's
the breath right I could do it with the
eyes closed I think yeah yeah actually
you were doing it better with eyes
closed like there was a time I don't
know if you noticed but what do you
closed your eyes and you listened and
that's when you could tell right so it's
kind of weird and then so the first
thing to understand is that like there
are patterns of breath that are
associated with certain moves so now the
question is is it a two-way street if I
adopt a pattern of breath that is
anxious or fearful will I become anxious
or fearful I think you will become a
little more anxious and fearful yes
absolutely right so now let's think
about that what does that mean for the
moods that you experience reckful well
it means I can start a pattern of
breathing that will make me more calm
and maybe I could achieve the serenity I
want absolutely
that yeah so you I mean this all started
because you discovered this on your own
you said oh [ __ ] sometimes like when I'm
feeling bad I noticed that my breaths
are shallow and if I change the way that
I breathe I feel better instantly and as
a whole humanity understands this
because what do we tell people who are
freaking out take a deep breath
absolutely right and look why the [ __ ]
does that like why do we say that is
that just like societal or is there some
physiology from dollars we learned over
thousands of years we keep back
absolutely it's [ __ ] it's not rocket
science right it's just like hey man
like slow the [ __ ] down take a few deep
breaths tell me what's going on right
that's what we tell people and then the
mind-blowing thing is that that that
this [ __ ] works that it actually works
and so if you can control your breath
which is what the practice of brown I am
is then you can control your mind so
there are a couple of things that we're
gonna tunnel down a little bit further
okay so what are the different qualities
of breath so like how do i how do I like
the different patterns of breathing that
I was giving you what are the different
things that how are those things
different how are those patterns of
breath different like what are the
qualities of them like what are the
stats or attributes of different
breathing patterns mean excellent
perfect that's it
got it beautifully enough okay so let's
just think about this if I am breathing
rapidly and shallowly
what emotion do you think that is
worried absolutely right
so if I'm breathing shallowly and slow
what emotion do you think that is
shallowly and slow shelley and [ __ ] a
rare one it's net weight shallow and
slow pay attention to yourself because I
breathe you breathe that way a lot I
think you breathe that way in the
morning in at night oh man really okay
well I know my feeling but that's not
everyone else's fact my feeling is like
cares about everyone else's feeling okay
so my feeling that I'm having when I'm
breathing this way is I need to be ready
at any moment I need to be ready at any
moment to answer someone with something
they'd like can we just call it being at
the airport without your bag not sure
okay what's that anxiety maybe it's
anxiety but uh what I'm feeling okay
like a lot of times I'm hanging out with
people and I put this pressure on myself
to be the person who keeps the
conversation going so I'm having these
kind of breaths that I'm kind of ready
to fill the shallows empty space okay so
I think there's something I don't know
if you want to turn to chat at some
point we can also remove chat to help us
out or we are talking what do you think
we should do charts interesting let's
see what they're saying so chat what do
you guys think that shallow and slow is
which is weird because generally we
think about shallow and and it's like if
we're breathing slowly we associate that
with long a lot of people said sad or
anxiety but I feel like I breathe like
that all the time yeah so I think that's
on the sadness spectrum and that anxiety
is more like rapid and shallow right
when I think about someone who's anxious
oh man and then just like kind of slow
breaths that are more shallow I think of
as more of sad someone with spending
insecurity which is not false not false
so there I mean I'm simplifying the
breath but they're there all kinds of
nuances to the breath which we can dig
into further and further and further
there's a whole branch of yoga called
soiree yoga which is all about the
different mechanisms of breath and they
even get so not only like which nostril
is more open than the other because that
correlates with mood like right now
everyone thinks that both of their
nostrils are open all the time but one
of your nostrils is open at a time usual
and like which one are your nostrils is
more open can you tell the right one
okay
so we'll check and if you want you if
you want to switch it you let me know
I'll show you how to switch it so
they're there more so we're gonna sort
of start with some people I don't know
right now how do you switch it okay I
mean it's it's gonna interrupt the flow
of the stream though because it takes
some time but we can do it yeah I mean
we could do it if y'all want to so this
is this will be our formal meditation
technique at the end of the art tak talk
today okay someone it's that's it left
game later okay there sing later yeah so
then then let's let's go through a
couple of other emotions so what is
rapid and deep breaths what emotion is
that what would you guys say that is
there's think panic or anger all right
so I'll show you one more time reckful
what is yeah I is this the one that I
said you just worked out and I messed up
or no just what do you think it is
forget about what you said earlier you
just you just got past something hard
okay I mean that's what I would but
that's just me specifically yeah so I
think this is important so I'm talking
like I have answers but it's important
to remember that everyone's perspective
is gonna be different and so you guys
should explore this for yourself so in
my mind that's anger so when I what I do
when I create that pattern of breathing
is I think about something that no I
don't hang out with a lot of angry
people I don't think that's okay yeah so
the other thing is one person some
people in my chat said sex and I think
sex is a spectrum so if you breathe
deeply and a little bit more slowly than
anger then I think it's arousal right
that's how you get the sex it's just a
little all I have to do is breathe a
little deeper than lust lust so this is
this is lust right so okay
oh the eyebrow is involuntary because
it's like yeah so so that's that's like
that's arousal so arousal is also kind
of an emotional state so we can look at
other things right and then there's
calmness which is sort of like then
there's chilled out and then there's
like calm which are two different things
like there are so many gradations of the
state of our mind so chill this is kind
of like you know we're gonna we're gonna
smoke weed and we're gonna chill out and
we're gonna like you know like just
that's like the as I killed out and then
there's like true like sort of peaceful
kind of like meditative breathing right
and if you do this you're gonna have
like a respiratory rate of like four per
minute there's one time in my life I
remember I was in Amsterdam and I had
just done a very big mushroom dose but
it was after it ended and I was sitting
in a Chinese restaurant with a cup of
tea and it was the most peaceful I ever
felt I've never experienced this feeling
again I want to be there yes so that's
what needs to change right so I think
that like we could talk about the hunt
of all all you want to we can talk about
getting you know we can talk about like
treatment of depression and sadness but
I think at the end of the day reckful
what needs to change for you to truly be
not lonely anymore
it needs to like you need to cultivate
that part of yourself you need to give
yourself that experience time and time
and time again and just like your breath
through which you can train like
voluntarily first and eventually it
becomes involuntary kind of like driving
right like when we learn a skill I
really want to be involuntary I would
love that but I yes how much training do
you think huh I mean I want to do it no
matter what but how much time will it
take for my breath to involuntarily be
deeper and slower so science says
somewhere around eight weeks I'd say it
somewhere around a year yeah a year okay
like so talk about what I'm talking
about is not even science that's beyond
science but science all of the clinical
trials that look at meditation for
treatment of depression and anxiety and
things like that show a clinically
significant all of the effect sizes and
average all of the duration of trials
there are 12-week trials there are four
week trials there are six week trials or
eight-week trials basically like my
conclusion is that if you average all
that [ __ ] together the average person
needs eight weeks have dedicated
meditative practice to create a
clinically significant improvement in
depression or anxiety so my answer to
you is very long eight weeks but I think
that that's for depression or anxiety I
think to get to what we're talking about
which is looking at your cup of tea is
gonna take way longer you may have
moments but you want to be able to like
have that sense of peace within you and
I think that's really what you're what
is missing so I think like you don't you
don't there's something like missing in
you like something fundamental and this
I don't think it's necessarily like go
ahead I was gonna say what are you
feeling
you hit me that's it
okay so just notice yourself
notice your breathing
so as you change the breath the mind
changes yeah you don't have to change
the mind you decide whether you want to
feel what you're feeling and let the
breath be natural or you want to control
the breathing I'm fine okay good job
so what so let's just think about what
just happened right so like something
you felt something something resonated
and then the emotions came up your mind
started to think and experience certain
things are not quite sure what and using
the breath you restrained or calm to
those feelings and you know I think last
time I guess the track we got on was to
explore those feelings this time I want
to teach you something else so it's not
necessarily about exploring those
feelings right now unless you want to
but I think
leave that there's that whatever in me
that's missing that I can fill it so
this is the other really important thing
to understand that thing within that is
missing within you is also a calling
I think I have the calling though now I
feel like I have four career feeling I
feel like I have it what I want yes so
calling is about more than a career
right so this is something within you
that is not allowing you to be content
this is something within you that is
stripe that is pushing you to explore
and learn and grow because this is not
it's not read it's not satisfied so
that's the same thing that would the
head like he just like felt like
something was missing and so so and you
say like nothing is ever gonna change
that because for 30 years nothing has
ever been able to change it I just want
to wake up and be around a lot of
friends and have a lot of people
laughing and about random things yeah
maybe sit on a couch and take turns
playing some games casually
okay that's and then I wanna that that's
the other thing I always feel like it
was missing that I want yes but the
thing is with the career um I always
felt like that was missing but now that
I'm working on my game I feel like that
part I I do what I want okay doing what
I always wanted to do maybe I'm not
there yet and like my game will come out
and then when I'm actually seeing people
play it and I'm patching it you know and
taking their feedback and things like
that and making it better then maybe
it'll feel it's more in the state of
where I want to be okay you know
so reckful I think we've got one of two
choices so one is that so my hypothesis
is that you should strive to create a
life filled with people who enjoy your
company and who you feel relaxed and
like fulfilled by and I suspect once you
get that one day you're gonna wake up
and you're gonna be like oh [ __ ] this
feeling isn't gone yeah that's scary cuz
at least right now I have a goal because
I don't have a goal that I want some
friends around if I have a bunch of
friends around and then I still feel
empty inside I
I don't know yeah so so let's talk about
friends for a second so tell me a little
bit about are you tell me a little bit
about your situation like um you know it
seems like you're really hunger in for
relationships and companionship
you
okay well the first thing I came in mind
is just being in school
um I I don't know why for some reason
when I was in school no one liked me
now people like me on the Internet but
uh
I didn't have any friends um very
isolating going to school every day
having no friends
you see but also good friends for years
you don't have any um but I feel like I
could get over that what is it really
how did you feel when you were in school
I mean I felt terrible what does that
mean
I don't know it's hard to put myself
back
it's unrelated I mean people will
understand what it is I don't have to
actually like put myself in the emotion
and experience it again
sure people like the feeling of not
being included in things or
[Music]
I don't I don't really know how to
describe it exactly yeah I think not
being included is a great way to start
because what I'm hearing from you is
inclusion is what you're looking for
right like what would this this picture
that you painted of like people just
being around yeah yeah reckful like you
want to grab some food like yeah man
like you want to play some Smash
Brothers like it yeah man yeah like okay
so right before we did our talk I went
live on Instagram I got text like five
people no one want to get food that day
and I went live on Instagram and asked
if anyone wanted to get food with me and
then I met up with a viewer to get
dinner like that's how much I'm seeking
like someone to talk to you yeah yeah
we talked about some scars last time a
lot of the terminology the harm I
remember that one but a lot of the
terminology I don't remember so I think
I'm just thinking about timing
I'm just trying to think about how to
say this stuff in a way that doesn't
make it seem obvious or informational
but can it be a little bit more
impactful or transformative I'm
wondering if I should tell you some more
stories or something for my do you like
to listen to people's childhood and
things like that it's very open yeah
yeah I'm I'm also just thinking a little
bit about time because I don't want to
lose track of the earlier stuff that we
were talking about and I'm just trying
to decide a little bit about the
cost-benefit of like really hammering
something down like would you be better
served by just hammering down the breath
and implementing that change or by like
really opening up this topic in like a
new way because I feel like if we talk I
want to open it up in a new way yeah
okay
so then then okay so then tell me a
little I mean um although the breath
thing yes things more direct and it
helped me right away yes so I I'm
actually gonna do something that I think
a lot of people including yourself are
gonna find unsatisfying sorry about for
a while sorry I was gonna say I'm
actually thinking about doing something
that you and probably twitch chat will
find unsatisfying because I think we're
on the cusp of something important for
you but at the same time I think it is
important to recognize that change is
not necessarily following change doesn't
come about by following the thing that
we feel like doing change comes about by
doing the thing that we really need to
do and I think we're actually at that
juncture right now where the last time
we talked there was something kind of
emotionally transformative about our
time together and now we have another
opportunity to basically do like episode
2 of last time but what I'm really
wondering is are you gonna be better
served by doing episode 2 of last time
or by you actually like settling down
and like Nate or like nailing in nailing
down I guess this with the work that I'm
phrase I'm looking for this issue of the
breath and starting to implement that
change like a year from now which one is
yeah so I'm just trying to think a
little bit about timing and like which
one I feel like we should do the breath
thing first even though I imagine that
that will feel unsatisfying to you it's
not super incessant like I could do it
okay okay so I'm gonna try to yeah so I
think this is what we have to do and we
can talk about emotions and childhood
and Loan we got to dig into that but I
think that's gonna be like a whole
nother hour at a minimum so I think this
is what I want you to do I'm gonna try
to give you a sense of the teacup that
you had on shrooms which is hard because
you weren't shrooms but we're gonna try
to get you there a little bit okay so
which of your nostrils is open now right
okay the right one so the right one
you're sure about that
yeah okay so I want everyone to check
right so you can do it this way and one
of them is gonna be more open reckful
now what I want you to do so this is
great because your bread is in the
picture I want you too late because your
bed is in the picture sure I want you to
lay down on your bed oh wait not yet not
yet still hear you with the speakers
okay so so but don't do it yet because I
want you to so this is what I want you
to do when you lay down in your bed I
want you to with each breath and you
guys should do this at home too with
each breath notice which of your
nostrils is open so just focus on the
nostril that's open and then when you
feel the shift I want you to sit and
feel that shift as closely as you can
try to feel that shift from right to
left it with as much attention as you
can okay and then we're gonna talk about
what that experience is like and the
practice ends when your other nostril
switches and is like securely there for
like ten breaths okay I lie down yes and
Payet H breath which are focusing on
close your eyes with each breath focus
on the which of your nostrils is open
and then you're gonna feel a transition
and try to sit fully within that
transition and then the transition we're
gonna get it from the right nostril to
the left you're not trying to get it
it's gonna happen on its own and you're
just gonna watch it and as it so this is
what I want you to do imagine that
you're the wave is coming in and out
from the ocean and sometimes you just
stand and you just feel the water right
you're not doing anything to the water
you're not bringing the water the waters
are doing it on its own you're just
sitting in the water so I want you to
just sit in the transition and just feel
it lay down on your right and just put
full attention to which of your nostrils
is open on your right so right side down
yapper it oh so put put put put your arm
put put your right arm under you right
arm under like this yeah under under
under your body yeah yeah so just lay
down on your right side I know you don't
I know you don't I know you don't but do
it this time and try to be yeah don't
curl no no no curling just lay down yeah
so just scoot down a little bit so this
is [ __ ] weird I know
fold the pillow in half and tuck it
under your head yes perfect close your
eyes and watch you guys do it - lay down
on whichever side the nostril is open
and then close your eyes and watch watch
your breath it's gonna take a couple
minutes so be patient both of them are
rarely are gonna be fully open so check
with your nose you may notice a subtle
difference between the two if you think
they're both open no it's not enough to
put the head on the side as nothing to
do the head has to do with the armpit
[Music]
I'm trying to respect being quiet for
reckful but we can answer all these
questions okay so some people are saying
this and say okay so both of your
nostrils really shouldn't be equally
open all the time that's the perception
that people have but if you check with
your your finger you'll notice that one
of them is more clogged so if it changes
I want you guys to sit in that
transition and just notice that
transition is it happens the [ __ ]
someone just gifted a bunch of subs
what the hell thank you
how we doin reckful right nostril still
open okay just sit with it okay so you
can you can curl up put you I mean not
like super uncomfortable but you can put
your hand under your head if you want
your right hand under your head yeah
yeah yeah but then you're tipping
forward which isn't good but that's okay
you
did he miss it okay come back okay I'm
left okay your left gang all right so
let's just see like who procedure eyes
up huh yeah I'm left gang okay so this
is what you've got to do reckful so if
you want to feel if you want to get back
to the teacup you can't miss it because
you missed it yeah I didn't notice what
happened
so like for what I watch all to do is
like when you guys do this practice you
can just lay down on the on the side
that your nostril is open and watch as
its gonna shift it's just hard to
describe you're gonna feel it and so pay
attention so right now what we need to
do is get you to be able to pay
attention to that damn leg how do you
feels a little different is left going
than right gang I was thinking just now
it is it is different so the the not the
nerves in your left nostril connect to
in Turner ons that innervate your your
parasympathetic nervous system what and
the nerves in your right nostril connect
to in Turner ons that innervate your
sympathetic chain ganglia which is your
so this is essentially like Sun and Moon
or yin and yang so your sympathetic
nervous system is more active when you
when your right nostril is open and your
parasympathetic nervous system is more
active when your left nostril is open so
if I want to be better at what do I want
the left nostril open and if I want to
be better at what do I want the right
one if you want to be physically active
or like passionate mental activity then
right nostril is better if you want to
be calm if you want to have sort of
clarity of mind without passion then
left nostril is better if you want to
rest left nostril is better if you want
to yeah left nostril is better
although we're having this conversation
and I want to go deep left nostrils
better but didn't you say left nostril
was for being really calm and then if I
want to where do you say can you stick
in the right nostril yeah so right
nostril is your sympathetic nervous
system so it's fight or flight if I'll
have you know yeah like any sort of
physical activity or be like have a
passionate mind then right now someone's
gonna have a passionate mind right now
it depends do you want to experience
more emotion or do you want to
understand yourself better oh I want to
understand it then laughs nostril
okay so if so this is what and I
encourage you guys to explore this right
so in my experience and according to the
yoga Shastras left nostril is gonna make
you feel a little bit more chill and
right nostril is gonna make you feel a
little bit more active and the other tip
I'll give you guys just one really
simple thing is after you eat a meal you
should lay down on your left side for
about five to ten minutes and just see
how you feel afterward after a meal we
want to be lay down on the left side so
we get the right nostril activated yes
okay so yeah this is some crazy [ __ ] so
there's some science behind it but the
science behind it is not very good
there's not what it's not very good so I
think what the the best thing that I
recommend about this stuff cuz this is
not really something that has been
although I'm sorry I don't know I it's
transmitting over here water so I'll try
to find you guys references for what
science supports with this stuff but
this is not this specificity of breath
and meditation has not really been like
scientifically studied like this is
generally speaking in plant trials and
it didn't not not to this degree of
specificity right so remember that like
inhaling is that if there were trials
with a couple hundred people it would be
true but you haven't been yeah because
no one is like that's just it's just way
too specific and there isn't a
foundation so generally speaking let's
remember how like research works we
research something very generally and
then we start researching
things like the next study is gonna be a
little bit more specific is gonna be a
little bit more specific so right now
there are just general studies being
done on mindfulness or meditation in
general there are very few studies that
look at different kinds of meditation or
explore like physiologic effects of like
different techniques very few we're just
sort of starting that we're still trying
to figure out whether this stuff has any
merit or not right can meditation help
with arthritis can meditation help with
depression there are some preliminary
studies that suggest different kinds of
meditation have different effects on
your brainwave patterns so that's the
resolution that we're at is do are two
kinds of meditation even different and
is there any evidence of that and the
answer to that is yes there are
convincing studies of that that I can
look you but we have nowhere nowhere no
one has explored this degree of
specificity and research because we're
just not there yet right it's sort of
like we have to remember that you know
let's say penicillin was discovered I
think sometime between the 20s and 50s
and so that was like like our
understanding of microbial
microorganisms and antibiotics is like a
hundred years old and so over a hundred
years we've had a lot of time to study
now we know a lot about different kinds
of microorganisms and antibiotics we've
been studying meditation for like twenty
to thirty years and so we really have an
anecdote yeah so for me haha if I had
started doing magic mushrooms five years
ago for depression people would have
called me a lot crazier than they would
now that it's getting fda-approved for
as a breakthrough therapy Yeah right
[Music]
but it would have helped me just as much
five years ago we didn't know yeah so
you have to remember that science so
like this is the difference because two
years ago even in I mean there's been
knowledge or exploration of meditation
for like the better part of five
thousand years and they learned a lot
and science is like by comparison
science started studying this [ __ ] like
30 years ago so there's a there are the
you know what what the Yogi's understood
about meditation which I do believe I
mean not to say that everything that
they say is right but I think they're
they're brilliant because a lot of the
work that I do is based on their stuff
and I think like people say your
credentials a bit because people in the
chat might not know they do tune in and
random times in and out oh no sure
so by the way someone gifted like a
hundred subs so thank you to that person
so so might be but Gumpy I'll do my I'll
do my Andy thing so intro Andy so my
name is all okay noise I'm a
psychiatrist
I studied meditation for an yoga for
about an Eastern medicine Ayurveda
specifically mostly a little bit of
Chinese medicine for about seven years
originally with the goal of becoming a
monk and then ended up going doing
neuroscience research for a couple of
years and then went to medical school
and trained to become a psychiatrist and
now I do integrative or holistic
psychiatry like incorporating
complementary alternative medicine
meditation yoga and things like that
into treatment for depression anxiety
PTSD stuff like that and then I'm are
trained in a faculty at Harvard Medical
School
yeah I'm a Harvard Andy so I did
neuroscience research they're trained to
become a psychiatrist there and I'm on
faculty there so where did I learn
meditation so I learned meditation from
like dozens of people so I traveled to
India every year for a period of about
seven years and spent about four months
a year in India and studied with
different teachers different ashrams
different lineages learned a lot of
different kinds of meditation techniques
from a lot of different people and then
now I sort of use different kinds of
techniques to help different kinds of
people but a lot of this like
fundamental stuff about how to
understand the breath like in and this
is the thing like I don't think you can
find speaking of science I don't know if
there's actually a study that tells us
what the pattern of breathing for
different emotions is I've never seen a
study like that maybe that's out there
but like that's the kind of simple
formative stuff that sometimes science
like misses right but we can sort of
test that ourselves just and it's kind
of like common sense so I think science
is really fantastic and you should make
evidence-based decisions when you're
doing treatment but I also think that as
I've learned time again and again as a
clinician it doesn't matter what sign
says if the patient if it doesn't work
for the patient so even if you know the
overwhelming evidence suggests that a
good treatment for depression is an SSRI
or antidepressant like prozac if it
doesn't work for you it doesn't [ __ ]
work for you so what side says kind of
doesn't matter right so you like a lot
of what I advocate for is individual
exploration Rosic yeah when my brother
killed himself he had just started
taking Prozac yeah how old was he 21 so
I don't know if people are aware of this
but there's a black box warning placed
by the FDA that soon after taking SSRIs
it actually increases the risk of
suicidality which is but completely
bizarre
some people hypothesize that when you're
super depressed you don't feel like
doing anything so even though you're
suicidal
your lack of motivation prevents you
from killing yourself and I mean no none
of this no one really knows this but
when I asked people when I asked my
professors like you know why is it that
SSRIs actually increase the risk of
suicidality like what the [ __ ] is up
with that one person told me well I
think actually as crazy as this sounds
what happens is that it fixes motivation
problems before it fixes suicidality so
there's a brief window of time where
people still feel suicidal but the
prozac is giving them like enough pep in
their step to actually go and try to
hurt themselves so it's kind of like a
really bizarre sort of instance but this
is like there's literally a black box
warning which means when you get a
medication there's like a black box on
it from the fda that says that taking
this medication increases suicidality
yeah the warning happened because a lot
of people like your brother killed
themselves and the warning is really
applies to adolescents and teenagers but
I think it also fits for young adults it
seems to not have that effect nearly as
much in older people or it seems to be
absent so we're not sure why that
happens yeah so if they had known back
then that mushrooms were good for
depression and instead of Prozac then he
might have been alive I shouldn't think
that way you know yeah what do you what
does that thought what do you what are
you thinking what are you feeling can't
blame anybody they're trying I mean I
guess they're trying to discover what's
good for depression right that's not
what you're doing
what are you doing reckful regret yeah
yeah also blame also wanting yeah
also at its core you want things to be
different you want things to not be this
way yeah that's that's the crux of it is
that you're not ready to accept the way
things are yeah and unless what are you
gonna hold so when you don't accept what
happened to your brother and you don't
accept your own depression what does
that mean for you like what does that
mean for your life what is that lack of
acceptance feeling what does the lack of
acceptance feel like unfulfilled I don't
know I don't know what answers like
there's some something [ __ ] missing
yeah that's unfulfilled right yeah and
so when you wake up in the morning and
you feel like something is unfulfilled
when you feel like something is missing
like that's where that [ __ ] comes from
and as long as you hold on to that I'm
not saying that you should it's easy to
let go or that you're ready to let go
yet because I don't think you are that
that sense that fundamental sense
something I've let go of it like [ __ ] a
hundred [ __ ] times in my life you
know it just comes up sometimes
yeah so that's because you haven't let
go because you don't want to let go
you're not ready to let go you're not
ready because lucky you don't you still
blame things for what happened
you blame science and you blame yourself
and you blame your brother and you don't
blame your brother you learn to forgive
him but there's still a part of you that
is just not it just it shouldn't be this
way it shouldn't have been this way this
shouldn't have happened it shouldn't
have happened to him and it shouldn't
have happened to you yeah I was just
thinking something interesting um when I
was kid remember they died my grandma my
dad
she was really old already she's like 85
86 no 87 she's 87 and my dad didn't want
to tell her that he died so she would
ask where's guy how come he hasn't
visited in a while you just say oh he's
really busy that he was getting his
pilot wings for a while but then he got
his pala wings a little bit for um and
we never told her and I was in on it
to never tell her I was kid she died
never knowing that he died she was like
in the hospital and she like fallen in
the shower and broken her hip and she
was in the hospital and she was
wondering where he was but it was better
not to tell her that he was not that
round we never told her yeah why do you
bring that up now it just came in my
mind yeah why I'm not sure what is that
story about some closure feeling I guess
yeah
by closure feeling it that stories about
the impossibility of acceptance that
story is about like not knowing that
story is about a version of reality that
you in a bizarre way longed for in a
bizarre way I'm looking for a version of
reality that your grandmother had like a
version of reality where my parents are
looking for it a little more I'm sure I
yeah
yeah have you ever talked I mean I'm
sure you guys have talked but have you
talked to your parents about your
brother passing away not for this yeah
like what are this conversations go like
they don't go well okay good yeah what
does that mean I don't want to thought
they were probably listening right okay
sure yeah so I mean I I think you know
speaking of community and loneliness I
you know reckful them it's better if I
talk to them directly right yeah sure so
I mean I I think the challenge here is
that we're talking about you letting go
but like I don't think I I don't think
it's just you that needs to let go right
you told me about how your relationship
with your other brother kind of changed
and like this is you could [ __ ] my halo
so I was I was just saying I don't think
this is just about you letting go this
is yes is about like you because it's
gonna be very hard to let go when other
people are holding on in some way and
you guys are like connected and that my
dad my dad told me about a year ago that
he finally feels okay here's what he
said but I remember when I was really
young I overheard him talking to his
friend I don't know I was like 12 that
he told his friend that he wanted to
kill himself I was weird to hear my dad
say that yeah reckful do you have a
therapist I've gone to therapy a few
times but not I've never saw it as
useful enough to keep going this time I
do well okay this is not therapy but I
[Music]
yeah it was so okay so look look man so
this is what we got to do so either so I
think this is way more longitudinal like
there's something this is way more
longitudinal right so I think we have to
do a we got to figure something out so
either you need to talk to someone about
this because you understand things that
you didn't understand before or
like I can't do one offs like we can do
one offs about meditation and random
[ __ ] but if you really want to get into
this if you want to get into loan this
we got to do it like in sequent like we
got to do it sequentially like we got to
do fine with that we got to do it you
know get started yeah so let's let me
just think about that it doesn't have to
be online but you know if you want to do
it online that's fine but then I think
we have to do it consistently and how
could you have done I mean I would say
probably every week for like four to
eight weeks that's not that long I mean
it's not that long but I mean it's I'm
willing to do that if okay well yeah I
mean I'm willing to do it because I I
mean I think you just have to think
about whether you really want to do that
huh and yeah I think you just gotta
think like you gotta just I
my thing is transmitting though I don't
know I think it's I think it's disorder
it's gotta be disclose sorry discord uh
I don't know like I think I don't think
I'm yeah it's discord my people are -
cuz I'm sitting here [ __ ] pulling out
my hair cuz I'm thinking that if I like
move back it stops I think it's discord
but it might because that time I was
watching it sensitivity you tried
changing it oh well I mean I think it
should be the same as anyway so going
back to going back to what we're talking
about so I think let me just think about
it let's figure out how to do this you
just sleep on it and then you let me
know like tomorrow or like whenever you
want to let me know and then we can
start we got to talk about it for like
four to six weeks okay so so do you want
to start having I want I want in the
morning I want you to do a practice of
433 rounds of thirty forceful
exhalations like this whoa are you
tapping your foot no what does that
sound I don't know
just me exhaling so really breathe out
with your with your like contract your
stomach okay all right so kind of like
this yeah pull your stomach in eyes
closed
okay with each exhalation contract the
stomach like like a bellows good that's
right stop
good now close your eyes feel close your
eyes and feel
just feel if I thought
talk feel
endorphins I think stop analyzing just
feel sit oh [ __ ] okay again 30 okay and
then don't say anything
I don't know if it's I don't know what
the [ __ ] that is okay we don't matter
your mouth and stop yeah man ride that
[ __ ] you just feel feel how amazing that
breath feels someone of the feeling
after working out I don't know why I
keep analyzing I'm sorry it feels really
good good
so stop analyzing do three rounds of
that so 30 breaths 3 times don't overdo
it and sit with the middle okay and then
if not I've never done cocaine I promise
just forget about cocaine okay okay so
you got to get out of your mind and just
sit in that place okay let me do it
again
no no no I mean you can do it if you
watch you learn yeah sure okay you got
you gotta go yeah I gotta go okay okay
thank you so much for your time I had a
very good time well do you want to begin
in two weeks or a week yeah I'm gonna be
out for Christmas but let's think about
starting maybe the first week of January
Christmas yeah yeah okay so I'll message
you will figure it out let's do like
maybe January seventh eighth ninth tenth
like sometime in like the second week of
January and then we'll do like I got
survived a long time on my own I got
this yeah I mean you can mess it like I
can talk to you in between that I just
won't be straight you can just message
me do this message me okay all right
strong word reckful right okay I think